---
layout: post
title: "Famo.us"
description: ""
category: Coding
tags: [javascript, english, famou.us]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Steve Newcomb

In the seventies my dad put together and computer in two months, and when he pressed the k key and it appeared in
the screen I felt the world was changing, I feel like this this way. We're an alpha thing with 70K people interested.

JavaScript is now of age, it was a time during JS almost died, because it was turned off by default
in 2008 JS started becoming fast, to the point where JS is 80% as fast as compiled C for many
things. jQuery was something that made JS accessible, people everywhere on any level were using it and learning.

Html5, big promises no deliveries, tonight we will see how those problems we saw in Html5 are disapearing.

WebGl, everyone but safari has WebGl turned on by default.

Famo.us a JS development platform that is robust and will let people take advantage of it, two and half years of development; 36 years after
I saw my first key on the screen. We can now do things that you didn't think possible before.

## Famo.us


### Powerful

I told you JS is 80% as fast as compiled C, so we build our own renderer on JS, that use to be a problem with the browser, either DOM, WebGl, same
renderer 60fps, it doesn't rely on the animation set of CSS3. We we're inspired by games not by CSS, so we built our own physics 3d engine in JS.

### Accessible

We worked over a year in an API that makes famo.us easy to use for anyone, we won't be a little thing, we will replace Jquery entirely in three years.

### Free

We worked with our investors (founder of google earth is here) to make it open source, we worked a lot to make sure to find a business model that
will make it free for anyone, everything.

### Integrable

Firebase, backbone, leap motion, Famo.us adapts to it.

### People

We're different from jQuery, we're a company, you should meet us. Steve, me, creator of the subset that became bing. Fetterman, creator of the
Facebook for devs platform. Ryan, created the python soft that destroyed New York in Avengers, Mark, coder from UC Berkeley.

### Shit twinkies

70K people has signed up for our alpha, tonight Famo.us stops being 10 people and it become all of us. We are well aware all of the broken promises
that were given by HTML5, when you choose we will make sure that you can choose famo.us as a career path. We will be here to answer for any question
and we will deliver, we don't deliver lean bullshit.


## Tonight

We will see previews of the code, and working like a million surfaces on the cell phone.

# THIS IS REAL, IS GOING TO HAPPEN, BE FAMO.US

# RYAN

We all have had problems creating new web apps, we wasted a lot of time building mobile versions of sites or html5 apps, build once deploy
everywhere; trying to make stuff work in every device was horrible, jquery mobile, accelerator, ice scroll, it was impossible, we all were
defeated. And then I saw the periodic table demo of famo.us.

# Tim

### Widgets

A widget anymates objects, just like in jquery. With famo.us you can change stuff on the fly. We have 31 easing equations and more can be created,
bezier curves, all with different uses, tweening, transitioning. Rotation, ful 3d aspect. We can save states, store them as objects.

# Fetterman

Four years ago the most used mobile app was fb for blackberry, world is changing. We wanted to use Html in Facebook, but it didn't worked.
Scrolling was the worst part of it, many scrollviews have been written and discarded.

HTML5 SUCKS THE MORE YOU KNOW

FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS USE HTML5

### Templates

A template is a group of widgets and code that can be used to create apps.

### Surface

A surface is a content window, you put data on it and famo.us renders it.

### ScrollView

Has surfaces on it, it manages them so it can only fetch and render what's needed and saving ram.

(I'm not a lean startup person)


### Adding data, binding

In this case we load firebase, and we iterate over json objects and create new surfaces that use the content fetch from the server, a surface
has a content property, we can add html, or text, or a controller that processes what will have on it.

### Subclassing

Instead of using html templates we pass attributes and data to the renderers.

### Multiple tasks/panels/Sections

Just like in native iOs, you create new panels that when clicked trigger a change of the information that is being displayed. Using a
NavigationBar widget.


# FireBase

We showed firebase 18 months ago, is a scalable real time back end without writing any server code, just write an app using our apis, you don't need
load balancers, or nothing that is cumbersome. We make it easy for you.

This is a big deal, because we can make app development so much faster, you can now worry on what matter the most. the refresh button is dead.

We were a good match with Famo.us, we make magic happen. We're putting the power of like Google on everyone hands.

Coding is the new literacy.

All of your users and devices in sync. is smart enough to work without internet connection.

