---
layout: post
title: "Angular 2 "
description: ""
category: programming
tags: [angularjs, programming, google, javascript]
---
{% include JB/setup %}


## Angular 2 with david east

Went to Angular's meetup in mountain view, february 10/2015, and this are the notes.

**Biggest takeover:** work in progress don’t rely on it yet.

**motivation** - **concepts** - **code**

###why?

angular1 is old (2009) - many things didn’t existed or were even conceptualized, we don’t need anymore many things that angular had to hack like transclusion or modules.

**performance** today angular2 is already way faster than angular1

**cognitive model** there are many concepts, controllers, directives and like a lot of things, lots of words and stuff
web standards use the current standards instead of hacking around

angular uses ATScript (@script) not here to replace JS, syntactical sugar, is being proposed so it included in future versions of JS.

**components** is where the template is attached to, templates are self reading from this constructors. is made of two parts an annotation and a controller.

Angular2 has local variables, scoped to an element. Also now it binds to properties of the DOM instead of attributes.

changed directives like ng-click, or ng-model to things like:

(events) - event listeners is the event's name in parenthesis

[properties] - to attach to properties of the DOM use the square brackets


Change detection in Angular is changing to be more performant.

Zone.js is used for determining when xhr requests and other libraries are interacting with the data in Angular

There’s no documentation yet, only the todo repo, maybe in a week or two, much more to say in ng-conf.

no magic two way data-binding to avoid leaking and bleeding of data

will use dom events to replace things like emit and broadcast

inheritance? in angular2, everything is like a component and has an isolated scope, but with JS6 there will be a few different options, and you can inject a component into another and control how your data relates

it will support CSS isolation, and shadow dom features as an opt-in

with () and [] is faster and with a lot less code, both for the framework and regular DOM events and properties as for new custom events. it makes sense now. and is valid HTML somehow. Avoid directive collision, and increase reusability.

config and other phases are gone, they were needed because objects (providers) needed to be configured sometimes before the bootstrap phase of the application. with the new ES6 components  and dependency injection, there are ways to configure them before they are loaded.

They are working on a way to partially run angular2 inside an angular1 application, so you can upgrade pieces.

do not start a project with angular2 today  use angular1 with the proper way and it will be 'easy’ to migrate to angular2 (components with isolated scopes). they’re listening to feedback and will chance or not many things, and many others are not completed (data layer, xhr). Another thing you should do today is start learning ES6. write tests!

ZoneJS is the shit, but it doesn’t actually notify what information changed, it just notifies of events in the browser and Angular takes care of sending where it goes and what it does.

**mobile** the VM wasn’t really understood when they were working (megamorphic calls), in angular2 the new change detection was done with performance in mind, so is much faster and easier on the battery, and occupies less space on the Ram too.

Angular1 didn’t had touch events. angular2 will naturally get touch events, for now using Hammer.JS, so there will be a lot of expressibility (swipe left, double pinch, etc).

**And many more things!**

Angular2 is looking to support offline too in the data layer! so if the phone caputs the app will keep working.

Accessibility testing will be added.

Benchpress to allow for performance testing and see how your code and the things you do change the performance.

**angular-native** rendering angular to native app, because there is this ‘virtual dom’ thingie, maybe, it could be possible, but is not yet in the scope. angular2 is looking into using web workers for even more performance

dependency injection is amazing!, so they say.



